as Buckminster Fuller said there's
nothing in a caterpillar that tells you
that it's going to be a butterfly and
welcome to the human condition that's
the truth of what it's like to be a
person you're hoping that you turn
inward and see some signs some glimmer
some gift that you have that's been
bestowed upon you that you were born
with that is your very birthright but
there's nothing you were born hopelessly
average and the sooner that you accept
that the sooner that you accept that you
are no better than anyone that came
before you and everyone that's going to
come after you but all of us have
potential and so the question becomes
the question you have to answer with
your very life the question that your
actions will answer what are you gonna
do with that potential will you actuate
it will you bust your ass to get good
will you get so good over time that you
can play with the greats will you get so
good that people look at you with awe
can you get so good that you become the
excuse that other people use not to try
can you get so good that people have to
dismiss you as naturally talented can
you get so good the people refuse to
believe that they can get that good can
you work so hard
gaining a set of skills and driving
yourself day after day to get better
never accepting who you are always
pushing yourself forward always
demanding more and seeing the beauty in
what you can become and knowing that
even today as a caterpillar with nothing
with nothing to indicate you'll become a
butterfly can you become the butterfly
through sheer force of will
because if you can become that you
become a beacon of hope not for other
people for yourself because you prove
that there really are no limits and as
Walt Disney said you may not realize
that when it happens but it kick in the
teeth may be the best thing in the world
food why because it's the thing that's
going to make you react it's the thing
that's gonna hold you down it's the
thing that is going to make you say
never again no more I refuse to accept
this about myself I refuse to accept
that I'm average I refuse to accept that
I can't be something more I refuse to
stop when something kicks me in the
teeth I refuse to stop when people hate
on me or tell me that I can't do
something I refuse to be dictated to by
anyone even my own potential I refuse to
be held back by anything least of all me
and when you get that in your head when
you know that you can transcend even
yourself that negative voice in your
head that even getting kicked even
failing getting knocked down and being
covered in blood mud dirt everything
that would try to stop you that you'll
rise up and that you'll keep pushing and
that you'll define what you're going to
become when you have that in your mind
then you become unstoppable then you are
the caterpillar that becomes the
butterfly but you have to be willing to
take the knocks you have to be willing
to make the sacrifices you have to be
willing to suffer and when you're
willing to suffer you can become
anything because it's in that process of
breaking and mending and growing and
shaping that you realize that you are
both the sculptor and the marble
and therein lies the pain of creation
but in that you can create yourself to
be anything you want so the question is
that can you do it
it's only are you willing to do
never give up on what you really want to
do the person with big dreams is more
powerful than the person with all the
facts H Jackson Browne truer words have
never been spoken it is one of the most
interesting things about the human
condition that all of the facts in the
world no matter how true something may
objectively really be the only thing
that matters is whether or not you've
got the energy to see through to the end
of what you want to do and the energy
comes not from truth the energy comes
from your dream the energy comes from
what it is that you want to do the
energy ultimately is born out of what
you want to create it's born out of a
willingness to allow yourself to dream
it's born out of a willingness to think
that you actually can do it it's born
out of a willingness to take that first
step but the only reason that you're
gonna take that first step is you
believe that you can actually make your
dreams come true and that sense of this
thing that you have in your mind that
you can make it real that you can bring
it into the real world and have that
excitement you've long fantasized about
and understand and really feel in your
gut that that thing that you've dreamed
about can be real and when you have that
that's when you're going to have the
energy that you need to push and to
fight and to go through all of the
difficult things that you're gonna have
to to get on the other side and make
that dream real as Ferdinand fox said
the most powerful weapon on earth is the
human soul on fire the
can't be on fire without a dream a human
soul is not fed by facts a human soul is
fed instead by a belief that it can
accomplish what it wants to accomplish
it's fed by that thing that idea that
you found your mind that you fan those
flames of interest and turned it into a
real fascination and fan those flames
further into excitement and allowed
yourself to truly embody that belief
that you can make it happen so right now
whatever it is whatever crazy dream you
have and we all have one stop judging
yourself for it stop telling yourself
that you can't do it and understand when
you cultivate that fire when you take
that little ember and you fan it into a
raging in front of the that thing that
human stole on fire is what's going to
allow you to build something that the
world has never seen before
but it starts with that dream it starts
with your willingness to cultivate that
to think about it to allow yourself to
do that because so many people stop
themselves they think they're inadequate
they think that they can never do it and
even if that is a fact it's not
something that's gonna help you live a
life that excites you it's not something
that's gonna help you excite other
people but one thing that will do that
is the dream so right now allow yourself
that simply to dream as Joseph Campbell
said find a place inside where there's
joy and the joy will burn out the pain
now I get it life inevitably comes with
some degree of misery and I get it
for many of you things have happened in
your past that are unspeakable and
whether that's something big or whether
it's something small each one of us has
something inside of us that hurts it's
something that we wish weren't so it's
something that we focus on when we're
alone it's the thing that keeps us up at
night it's the thing that wakes us up in
the morning it's the thing that we
obsessively come back to over and over
and over for whatever reason that we
think means that we're not
good enough but I also know that inside
each one of us is something beautiful
that even in the midst of pain if you
allow yourself to focus on that to feel
the joy to not just think about it but
to actually feel the joy it will begin
to crowd out the pain it will actually
take that room and just like when you're
trying to create something amazing in
your life do not waste time trying to
tear down the old if you're trying to
create something beautiful in your life
spend all of your time trying to build
that new thing so if you want to feel
joy
don't try to eradicate the pain instead
focus all of your energy on that joy and
let it become so bright that it
ultimately takes over the pain and as
Aristotle said it is during our darkest
moments that we must focus to see light
and that's the thing with pleasure and
pain when you've got that ache inside of
you when you feel that something in your
past is stopping you from moving forward
it is in that moment that you must put
your focus and attention on the things
that are good on the things that you've
done that are good on the joys and the
beauty and the things in your life that
you're grateful for all of that if you
take your time and you put your focus on
that even when it hurts especially when
it hurts if you're able to do that if
you're able to find a way to take all of
your energy and put it on that to repeat
it to let it become a mantra to let it
be the first thing you think about when
you wake up the last thing you think
about in the night and the thing that
you cling to when you wake up and cannot
fall asleep if you let it be that thing
that you can put all of your attention
on that then you can actually change
your chemistry you can actually
change your own story you can actually
change your life but you've got to know
it's in our darkest moments that we must
focus on the light Happy New Year
everybody I hope this time of year is as
exciting for you guys as it is for me
and I definitely think about new
beginnings but I don't think about
resolutions and the reason that I don't
think about resolutions and the reason
that I hope you guys don't think about
resolutions either is as Mary Shelley
said the beginning is always today and
that's the important thing whenever
you're hearing this video whether it's
at the first of the year or not whatever
moment this is finding you I want you to
take this moment to realize that you can
make whatever change you want to make in
your life as Napoleon Hill said first
comes thought the beginning as you will
observe is in the imagination and that's
the key to getting started is you have
to understand that you already have
everything that you want but you've got
to think about what it is you're trying
to create in your life first you've got
to define that starting with the goal
and understanding where it is that you
want to go and then having the courage
to take that first step you've got to
have that courage you've got to have
that willingness to step forward into
the unknown not knowing where it's going
to go not knowing what you're going
have to do to get there and not
overwhelming yourself by looking at the
entire task but rather taking a single
step and a stevedore Rozsival said far
and away the best why's that life has to
offer his the chance to work hard at
what worth doing this is the thing that
is the great destroyer of dreams people
want it to be me and the only people
that are gonna succeed are the ones that
really understand that the prize that
life has to offer is to really pour
yourself into something that is
worthwhile to gain a set of skills that
are going to serve other people to do
something to have a vision that's bigger
than yourself and to go after it with
everything that you have but ask
yourself when was the last time you
toured yourself into doing something
where you gave yourself over completely
and totally to something because that
that's what success is going to demand
of you if you're really going to tap
into the human ability to adapt to grow
to get better to become capable of the
extraordinary to really do something
that is going to change people's lives
whether yours or somebody else you've
got to fall in love with the process of
busting your ass for something that you
believe in
if you can do that if you can identify
that thing that you're willing to give
yourself over to and take that first
step in courage without knowledge
without knowing exactly where it's going
to end up but believing in yourself
having faith in yourself that you can do
it then you'll be able to accomplish
anything you set your mind to and no
matter what day today is no matter when
this message is reaching you whether
it's the first of the year
or it's a random [__] Tuesday start
now
[Music]
everybody I hope you enjoyed that one
I've got some more coming up for you so
keep watching and at the end don't
forget take action everyone takes the
limits of their own vision for the
limits of the world Arthur Schopenhauer
there is all around you right now the
reflections of your world belief they're
so ever-present that you don't even see
them all the assumption that you've made
about the world the things that are
possible what you're capable of who you
are the very definition of what it means
to be alive all of it is completely
invisible and you're mistaken what you
have for what could be and once you
break free of that once you understand
that right now you're a moment in time
and that you have latent potential and
that latent potential can be expressed
in the form of skills that you can get
good at things that you can develop
yourself in any direction that brain
plasticity alone
is one of the greatest weapons that
you're not using but you have to move
beyond what you can perceive today you
have to begin to look beyond that and
see that which doesn't yet exist and you
have to remember that many of the things
that are holding you down are rules that
you don't even realize are rules and as
General Douglas MacArthur said you're
remembered for the rules you break and
right now you're following rules that
you don't even realize exists and some
of those rules are simply what is okay
to dream but I'm here to tell you the
power is in recognizing that you can do
it the power is in having the arrogance
of belief the power is an understanding
that
yes you are going to be capable of
something simply because you are willing
to believe in yourself and that's the
thing it's a willingness to believe in
yourself no one's gonna give it to you
even the people that love you they're
not gonna give you that they are
incapable of giving it to you people
cannot see past their limitations and
they take them for truth people actually
believe the things that have stopped
them will forever not only stop them but
they will stop other people how can they
hope to give you anything but limitation
so if you know that if you know that
even the people that love you what
they're handing you this limitation with
the best of [__] intentions with all
the love in the world how are you gonna
break out of that how are you gonna
break past those rules how are you gonna
fight the anxiety that inevitably comes
your way when you think about going
against the grain but my friends until
you can do that you can never get beyond
the [__] that limits you if people
said gravity is what it is we never
would have reached the skate velocity
and yet as a species we have been able
to hurl a [__] rocket into space get
it outside of gravity take us to other
planets that is real only because
somebody said I refuse to be held down
by the most obvious rule that we have
the one that everybody says is beyond
reproach and that is gravity
but even gravity will break under the
weight of a superior will so recognizes
Epictetus said if you want to improve be
content to be thought foolish and stupid
can you be content to be thought foolish
and stupid or do you allow yourself to
be caged to be hemmed in by what other
people think and look I get it I
understand the steam of contempt I
understand how much it sucks when
someone you respect doesn't respect you
but you cannot be anything more than
their captive if you think about what
they think about you if you let yourself
be defined by what other people perceive
of as you then you will forever be
limited by what they give you permission
to do and I don't know about you but
when I was a kid I said when I'm an
adult I will never [__] be told what
to do again I will never be held back by
somebody else I will define myself I
will figure out what I need to do and I
will do it and at the end of the day
that is it my goals drive my behavior I
am NOT held back by what other people
think about me no matter how [__]
intoxicating it is to be loved you have
to decide what you want more do you want
to be you or do you want to be someone
else's reflection of you
[Music]
as Mark Twain said the secret to getting
ahead is getting started that's
something I want all of you guys to
really embody and really think about
really put at the core of your existence
that step number one to accomplishing
whatever it is that you want to do is
actually getting started and I
understand I know the thing that holds
you back I know the thing that is
absolutely paralyzing for people is you
don't think that you have what it takes
to go out and be good and rather than
face that difficult brutal process of
growing and getting better and quite
frankly facing your inadequacies it's
easier just to sit back but as John
Wooden said never let me you cannot do
interfere with what you can there is
something right now that you're capable
of there is an innate skill inside of
you that's your spark it's that starting
point it's that thing that while you may
not be the best in the world at it it's
a flame that you can fan it's something
that you can breathe life into and
really begin to get good but first you
have to understand the very nature of
progress and that's a Stephen Covey said
you're not the product of your
circumstances but rather a product of
your decisions and it's those decisions
that are going to allow you to build
that skill set so don't worry about
where you started don't worry about what
you already have
remember it's the decisions that you
make it's going down that road it is the
decision to get started it's the
decision to face possible
failure it's the decision to get up once
you failed and it's the decision of what
to learn when you fail do you learn that
you're not
never should have tried well do you
learn a lesson from the failure and get
up and brush yourself off and remember
that at the end of the day you're going
to go as far as you're willing to fight
for and that's it if you're willing to
fight to go all the way then you will go
that far you will set a new bar you will
define for people what is possible to
become that beacon of hope you become
that thing that other people look to as
the standard at the end of the day it
started with you getting started it
started with you showing up it started
with you pushing and trying
don't worry about what you have and what
you are focus on who you want to become
and the price you're willing to pay
together
[Music]
as Nelson Mandela said education is the
most powerful weapon you can use to
change the world wherever you are right
now listening to this I want you to burn
that into your mind the most powerful
weapon that you're going to have at your
disposal isn't a gun it isn't a sword it
isn't a bomb the most powerful weapon
you will ever have at your disposal if
you really want to make change is
knowledge it doesn't mean going to
school it can be school it can be books
it can be a mentor it can be somebody
else's failure it can be your own
failure but whatever it is to always be
learning to be learning something today
knowing that that's an investment and as
Robert Louis Stevenson said don't judge
each day by the harvest you reap but
rather by the seeds you plant and that's
what knowledge is that's what the
learning process is is you're learning
something today that you may not even
understand how it's going to be valuable
a one day
that piece of knowledge is gonna come to
your in one day that thing that you
learned is gonna be something that
you're gonna lean on one day that thing
that you've worked your ass off to
understand better than anybody else in
the world it's going to help you change
the world but you have to be doing it
now you have to be learning with an
obsession you have to understand that
ideas inequal ideas out and that you
have to chase that knowledge down that
it is a relentless pursuit and that like
you would build an armada like you would
create a stock pile of weapons you must
create a stockpile of knowledge you must
learn
and you must hold yourself accountable
everyday to planting those seeds to
getting better to learning more to
understanding things more broadly when
you do that there will be nothing that
won't be unlocked to you that's what I
want you guys to understand it doesn't
matter where you are
matter where you started your
circumstances the money the people that
you know none of it matters what matters
is how much you willing to learn how
good are you willing to get how much
knowledge are you willing to soak in
because that will become your weapon
that will be how you rise up and that
would be the thing that will protect you
when you need it most
[Music]
you
so if you want to do something
incredible tomorrow learn today as
Michelangelo said if people knew how
hard I work to achieve my mastery it
wouldn't seem so wonderful after all and
that's the thing about getting great
that's the thing about being an artist
of such caliber that you're remembered
for hundreds of years after your death
it is back-breaking work
it is a blinding amount of effort it
isn't about natural talent that myth
that some people are born with something
that we celebrate so much is just that a
myth you're born a lump of flesh you
can't hold your own head up you may have
predispositions but that is a long way
from actually crafting your ability and
to the point where it looks like magic
and that's the beauty of artistry isn't
it
that it's so unbelievable that you're
more willing to believe that it was God
given that they were anointed with it
and that they just worked their ass off
but the truth is every one of the
Great's no matter how much natural
talent they were born with they're
remembered because they worked they were
remembered because they did so much work
because in that one is hardship in that
work is difficulty in that work is
unbearable adversity but it's in that
adversity that the magic happens and as
Victor Hugo said adversity makes men
prosperity makes monsters so I know
right now you wish you've been born with
some talent you wish that all those
dreams that you have they were yours for
the taking that you didn't have to put
blood sweat and tears into it that
somebody would hand you at least
something in the beginning that they
would give you some start since spark
that's where the monsters created if you
really want to get hard if you really
want to get tough if you want to get
great if you want to be unfuckin
touchable because no one can bend or
break your vision of yourself then you
have to suffer that's the way of the
world and as Florence Nightingale said I
attribute my success to this I never
gave or took any excuse
and that's the secret at the end of the
day if you know what you want it's only
a question of whether you're willing to
pay the price to get there so ask
yourself are you willing to pay the
price
[Music]
as Ralph Waldo Emerson said do not go
where the path may lead go instead where
there is no path and leave a trail it's
never going to make sense it's never
gonna be obvious you're never going to
walk out your door and see the obvious
way that you want to go and if you do
it's a trap if you do go down the path
that's already laid for you it's going
to take you to all the destinations that
are already known it's going to take you
to all of the places that instinct drove
the people before you but if you want to
go somewhere unique if you want to go
somewhere that only you would go if you
want to create something new and really
live a life that was meant for you
because it's literally crafted by you
you have to take the first steps on
faith and as Rumi said as you start to
walk out on the way the way appears so
as you're looking at the choices that
are before you where you've got a path
that's well trodden you've got a path
that literally is invisible and won't
become something until you step on it
you have to understand that that's what
this life is meant to be and that the
only frustration that you will look back
on with tremendous regret is knowing
that you did what was easy even though
it wasn't you there's some mechanism
inside of us there's some thing that
wants us to walk a path that's never
been walked before and the thing that
makes it so hard is right now inside of
you is a desperate desire for that to be
easy but it's not going to be easy it's
gonna be hard you're going to fail
you're gonna stumble you're gonna fall
on your face and thank God because as
Mohammed Ali said only a
man who knows what it's like to be
defeated can reach down to the bottom of
his soul and come up with the extra
ounce of power it takes to win when the
match is even so what you have to ask
yourself is what do you want do you want
it to be easy do you want the path to be
well won or do you want the path to be
yours do you want to know that inside of
you is something that you can reach into
and grab and that will be there at the
moment that you most need it do you want
to know that you're that type of person
because if you do you have to be willing
to walk the path that doesn't exist you
have to be willing to tread through the
brambles you have to be willing to fall
because it is in that process of failure
and pain and agony and suffering that
you will become that's the process that
will make you you that's the process
that will shape you
it's the suffering that gives you the
serves to draw when you leave the most
so when you ask for safety when you ask
for ease know that you're saying a
prayer for weakness and when you take
the hard way know that you're forging
yourself when you make those demands
know that you're building a reserve tank
that will be there at the moment when
you need it when you walk the path that
only you can walk know that you're
living the life that you were meant to
live and that my friends is how you
become the you worth becoming
[Music]
I listen and listen well because no
truer words are ever gonna be [__]
spoken you can do anything you want
without limitation whatever it is that
you decide you want to make come true in
your life you can do that it is gonna
take an inhuman amount of work you're
gonna have to be prepared to break
yourself in half you are going to have
to learn more than anyone has ever
learned you can have to push yourself
harder than anyone has ever asked you to
push yourself before you're gonna go way
beyond your breaking point you're gonna
run until you vomit you're gonna study
until you fall asleep
you're going to push and push and push
and then you're gonna push some [__]
more and when you hit the limit you're
gonna push again beyond that you're
gonna force yourself into an adaptation
response and why because it's Malcolm X
said the future belongs to those who
prepare for it today so if you don't put
the work in today if you don't do the
unending back-breaking work of
developing yourself into something
greater the world is gonna pass you by
the people that are going to own it are
gonna be the ones that did that work and
the one promise that I can make you
right now is that somebody somebody out
there is out working somebody right now
is doing the things that I'm saying
somebody right now is doing the work of
failing and getting up and getting
better and pushing themselves and
triggering that glorious adaptation
response that makes humans the apex
predator someone right now they're
putting in that work and if you don't
the future is gonna belong to them and
as Martin Luther King jr. said you can't
fly than one if you can't run then walk
if you can't walk then crawl but
whatever you do you have to keep moving
forward it's not okay to make excuses
it's not gonna slow people down it's not
okay to ask the world to stop so that
you can step out front it's not okay to
expect little of yourself and demand
great rewards the only thing that's okay
is to be in line with the way that the
world really works and if you want to be
great you've got to become capable of
greatness you've got to develop your
skill set you've got to take what you
have now and if that's crawling then
[__] crawl but you drag yourself ever
forward to a vision of yourself that is
so clear and so specific that nothing
could
you off your path because you my friends
know exactly where you're going you're
willing to pay whatever price it takes
to get there and no matter what anybody
says no matter how many [__] hecklers
come for you no matter how many people
try to flow dirt on you try to stop you
try to knock you down no matter how many
[__] people come for you at night
while you sleep you will rise and you
will keep pushing forward and you will
get better every day and no matter how
many times people chop at you knocking
down knock you off the path you can get
back on you will crawl soon you can walk
you will walk till you run and then you
will run until you fly and that my
friends is the only path forward so if
you want a [__] future that makes you
happy if you want a world that you're
excited about get your ass out there and
earn it as Thomas Edison said our
greatest weakness lies in giving up the
most certain way to succeed is to always
try one more time I know they're gonna
be a million times in your life where
you want to give up where you absolutely
ache with the desire to quit where
nothing sits inside of your gut other
than the certainty that you are going to
fail that you are not good enough to
push forward but that is to
fundamentally misunderstand the nature
of a failure the nature of a failure is
not to tell you who you are the nature
of a failure is to tell you a way that
didn't work it's to inform it's to
educate you it's to test you it's to be
a gut-check to find out if you believe
in yourself enough to push forward even
when the world seems to be telling you
not to and as Brian Tracy said
attempt the impossible in order to
improve your world
think about that for a second attempt
the impossible just to get better to try
the things that you know are going to
fail things that the world is going to
tell you simply cannot be but even if it
violates the laws of physics if there's
something in that attempt that you're
going to learn you owe it to yourself
you have a [__] moral obligation to
try because all of the people that will
lie in your wake are the people that
didn't try simply because they didn't
believe that they could do it you have
to be willing to look at the world you
have to be willing to see things that
you yourself think are impossible and
try because in that you will stretch
yourself you have to be willing to look
inward at the state of your current
skill set and say I'm going to play
outside of that I'm not going to play
words say I'm going to play where it
hurts I'm going to play where I feel
clumsy I'm going to play only in the
areas that make me feel stupid because
in that I know that the way that the
brain responds is to adaptation but I
have to stress myself
you can't ever lose sight of that the
only way that the human animal adapts is
through stress you have to be willing to
break things in order to
so if you want to push the boundaries if
you want to see just how far you can go
if you want to succeed at the highest
level if you want to play on a global
scale you have got to be willing to try
the impossible because right now the
things that you need to do are
impossible for you but they won't remain
that way forever and as Aristotle said
pleasure in the job puts perfection in
the work this doesn't have to be a tale
of always being terrified everybody
myself included screaming at you telling
you that you need to go do something
great the part they're leaving out is
why the [__] should you care you should
character this is the greatest joy you
should only listen to this if it's
leading you down a path that makes you
feel more alive and that's the point the
point is to get in touch with something
that makes you feel great but not to let
yourself starve or be stopped by a fear
that you'll fail by a fear that it can't
be done
have fun have the guts to enjoy yourself
have the guts to go out and attempt
something audacious and terrifying
knowing that all along if you're doing
it right you're gonna have a good time
so all of this going balls out trying to
prove something to yourself trying to do
something amazing never lose sight that
it's to build a better life never lose
sight of the fact that you're doing it
to create the person that you want to be
never lose sight of the fact that
be fun
[Music]